---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-02-09T20:14:41.425Z'
dateModified: '2016-02-09T20:14:25.066Z'
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
title: ''
author: []
sourcePath: _posts/2016-02-09-f0617640-559b-419d-b0c3-f9df3c0fbf4b.md
published: true
url: f0617640-559b-419d-b0c3-f9df3c0fbf4b/index.html
_type: Article

---
Say Merry Christmas

In recent years upon late December, as strangers greet strangers, the use of the phrase "merry Christmas" is getting more and more awkward. Instead, "Happy holidays" is the default, safe choice now.  
Whenever a store clerk utters "happy holidays" to me, my heart dies a little at her gingerly smile. Gingerly, because she's self-censoring in fear of getting herself into an awkward situation by offending me in any way.  
Last time I checked, both the U.S. and Canada are still Christian majority countries. Yet people are not displaying pride in their heritage as much as they are supposed to.

Why, you ask, would I, a non-Christian, care about that?

The first time I landed in America, an elderly Christian couple hosted me at their house. They took me to their church on Sundays. They introduced their version of America to me, and they had no fear of generalizing many aspects of American culture according to their own beliefs. Later on I would learn that what they told me was not the complete picture, but I appreciated their forthrightness.

That same year, people said "merry Christmas" to me. They said "merry Christmas" to each other.

Then later on, everything started changing. More and more "progressive" talks took place, but I feel more distant with people on the street year by year.

I've traveled to and lived in places. I've seen what a country could become of when it loses its identity.  
I've seen how the few took advantage of censorship on the many, and how they were always driven by the young and the naive. I've seen how rebellion against tradition was self-proclaimed as "progressive", which rapidly degenerated into totalitarianism and lead to the loss of great fortune and countless lives.

In short, I do not want to see this happen to America.  
So next year, I propose that you greet a stranger with "merry Christmas", like how your parents would do, with courage and pride.